Hello. My name's Katie,
and welcome to this session
on implementing Apple Pay
and order tracking.
Let's look at
the agenda for today.
First, I will take you through
the basics needed
to get started with Apple Pay.
Then I will show you
how to create a payment request
and respond to changes
in the payment sheet.
You can also add order details
at the end of the payment flow
so the user can
track their order.
The order details
will enable Wallet
to retrieve an ordered package,
which I will show you
how to build.
Finally, I will show you
how to update your order.
So let's get started.
Apple Pay is the easy, secure,
and private way to pay.
If you're a developer
of a website or app,
you can use Apple Pay
to improve your conversion
and user experience.
There are two essential items
to create to get started.
The first is an identifier
which uniquely identifies you
as a merchant able
to accept payments.
To create one, you should head
to the identifier section
of the Apple Developer portal.
The conventional format
is in reverse DNS,
beginning with
the word "merchant."
Use your spiffy
new merchant identifier
to create a payment
processing certificate.
Put very succinctly,
Apple Pay encrypts each payload
with your registered
merchant identifier
and public certificate.
This payload can then
be decrypted
and processed on your end.
You can then return whether
the payment succeeded or failed.
Talk to your payment
service provider
for the specifics
on processing the payment.
There are different steps
to setting up Apple Pay
between apps and websites.
To set up Apple Pay
for use in your app,
simply navigate to the Signing
& Capabilities tab in Xcode
and add your merchant identifier
under the Apple Pay capability.
If you're building a website and
want to set up Apple Pay there,
there are some
additional steps required.
You must register
the domains that will process
the Apple Pay transaction,
which can be done
in the identifier section of
the Apple Developer portal.
While you're there,
you can create
an Apple Pay Merchant
Identity Certificate
linked to the merchant
identifier you made earlier.
This certificate is used
to authenticate your sessions
to Apple Pay servers.
Whether you're integrating
an app or on web,
if you're working with
an e-commerce platform
or a payment service provider,
check out their
specific instructions
as they may simplify
some of these steps.
Now let's look at how
to actually implement Apple Pay.
Before displaying
Apple Pay-related content,
you should check
whether the user
is able to make payments
with the current configuration.
Capabilities denote
which types of payments
the sheet can currently accept,
such as 3D Secure
or credit or debit cards.
You will later specify
the capabilities you accept
when you configure
the payment request.
You can check for networks
the user already has available,
keeping in mind that the user
is able to add more cards
if none are currently available.
Now that you know your user
can make payments,
it's time to display
the Apple Pay button.
Make sure to select the best
call to action and button type
in alignment with the action
the user needs to take.
Display the Apple Pay button
prominently, above the fold,
and as the first payment option.
The Apple Pay button
is fully localized
and can also be adapted
for the user's settings.
To display an Apple Pay button
in your app with the UIKit,
firstly, create
a PKPaymentButton,
specifying the type
and style of the button.
The type describes the kind
of payment; for example,
Donate with Apple Pay
or Continue with Apple Pay.
The style controls
the appearance of the button,
like whether it's light or dark.
Use the automatic style
for the button
to dynamically change
based on the user's settings.
On web, use a JavaScript
Apple Pay button.
To add one, first,
load the button script
into your web page on
your content delivery network.
The JavaScript Apple Pay button
also enables you
to specify type, style,
and localization.
You can also use CSS
to further customize
the button's dimensions.
We need to create
a payment request
so that the payment sheet
knows what to expect.
In apps, we can do that by
creating a PKPaymentRequest.
There are many fields
that can be set on the request
depending on your needs,
but the essentials include
the merchant identifier
you created earlier,
the types of payments
you can accept,
the country and currency code
of the payment.
Specify the networks that
you accept payments from.
This should be done in order
of preference so Apple Pay
and choose the preferred network
for cobatched cards.
Finally, summary items
are included
as part of this transaction.
Let's take a closer look
at summary items.
To do that, we can imagine that
you run an online pet goods shop
and would like
to offer customers
the ability to check out
their orders with Apple Pay.
These summary items consist
of the total cost of the items
your customer has selected
minus any discounts.
They should help to break
down the cost to a customer.
The last summary item
is always the total,
and the label for this total
must be the company
receiving the payment.
It is required that there
should be at least one item
set in the array here.
Now, we're ready to display
the payment sheet.
First, we create a PKPayment
AuthorizationViewController,
sending in the request
we set up moments ago.
You are in charge
of presenting viewController
that is returned to you.
Now, let's have a look at
this delegate we're setting.
The PKPaymentAuthorization
ViewControllerDelegate
is how the sheet
communicates changes to you,
such as when the user
selects a new email address
or when they authorize
the transaction.
You should respond
to the changes
that are appropriate to you;
however, you are always
responsible for dismissing
a payment sheet
and should implement
paymentAuthorizationViewControll
erDidFinish to handle this.
You should always try
to return errors to the user
as early as possible
with a helpful description
to help them resolve the issue.
For example,
if there is a problem
with the user's new
shipping address,
you should return
an error as part
of the PKPaymentRequest
ShippingContactUpdate.
didAuthorizePayment is called
when the user is happy
with the details
and uses Face ID, Touch ID,
or their passcode to proceed
with the transaction.
You need to handle
the PKPayment sent to you
either yourself or by passing it
onto a payment processor.
You must call the handler
with an appropriate result.
In iOS 16,
we introduced the ability
to easily create an Apple Pay
button in SwiftUI.
All you need to do is pass
in the payment request
when creating a
Pay with Apple Pay button
and the payment sheet
will display automatically
when the user interacts
with the button.
The type of the button,
and optionally,
the style can also be set.
The payment authorization
change is analogous
to the delegate we looked at
on the previous slide.
Let's look at how to respond
to user updates.
The user has just
authorized a payment
and the payment authorization
phase change
informs your app of this
Your app then sends the payment
information to your server
and asks it to handle
the payment.
Check whether the server result
indicates success
and handle any error
returned by your server,
ensuring you still call
the result handler
with an appropriate error.
If the server result
does indicate success,
complete the payment
with an appropriate
authorization result.
The result you return must
contain what happened
when attempting
to process the payment;
for example, if the postal
address is invalid.
In most cases, the payment will
have either succeeded or failed.
If the payment did fail,
you can also return
one or more errors
ordered by importance.
That will be displayed
to the user
so they can try
to transact again.
This authorization result
can optionally contain
order details,
which we will look into shortly.
Now let's have a look at
how to do this on the web.
The W3C payment request API
is an open standard
that enables you to handle
payments on the web.
You can create
the PaymentRequest object
and populate it with methods
where you can specify
that Apple Pay is available;
details which contains
information about
the transaction,
like the total
and the shipping methods;
and options which specifies
what information
you want the user to provide.
You'll have to complete merchant
validation on your server,
so create a new merchant session
and pass it into
the complete function.
Just like native, you can
respond to interactions
the user makes
in the payment sheet
and you'll also need to handle
the payment response
when the user authenticates.
Now that you're all
integrated with Apple Pay,
we can start actually
building an order.
In iOS 16, we introduced
order tracking.
Your customers can now
see order details
and tracking information,
all from within the Wallet app.
They'll be able
to know instantly
when they can pick up
their orders,
if the orders
have been delivered,
if there have been
any problems,
or received notifications.
So now that you've
successfully integrated
your pet shop business
with Apple Pay,
you may also like
to add order tracking.
Let's see how.
You'll notice that getting
started with orders
is similar to setting up
Apple Pay.
Head back over
to the Identifiers section
of the Developer portal
and create
an order type identifier.
This identifies
your organization
as an entity that provides
order information.
Like with
the merchant identifier,
we recommend using a similar
reverse DNS-style naming scheme,
this time prepending
the word "order."
Next, create
an Order Type ID certificate
from the certificate section
of the developer portal.
You will use a Certificate
to build order packages,
update orders,
and send notifications.
Now that we've got that set up,
we can add an order to Wallet
from right within
the Apple Pay purchasing flow.
To do that,
let's take a look back
at our simple
payment processing flow
you should recognize
from earlier.
We already know your server
is sent payment information
for processing.
If the payment is
successfully processed,
your server should
create an order.
To support order tracking
in the result you return,
you should also include
some details
about the order you created.
These order details
enable the device
to asynchronously request
the order from your server.
Your server then turns
the order package to the device,
which will then
be displayed in Wallet.
For now,
let's take a closer look
at the order details
you'll need to return
as part of the PKPayment
authorization result.
The order details is
comprised of four fields.
The order type identifier
is simply the one
you created earlier.
You should generate a way
to identify your order,
but it must be unique
within the scope
of your order type identifier.
Include the URL
for your web service.
Finally, your server needs
to generate
a secure authentication token.
This is a shared secret
between the user's devices
and your server.
The device will use this token
to authenticate itself
when requesting
the order package.
This example initially
looks very similar
to the normal payment
authorization flow
we saw earlier.
Let's add the order details in.
First, grab them
from the serverResult,
then create a
PKPaymentOrderDetails object,
setting the Order Type ID,
order ID, web service URL,
and the authentication token.
Assign this to your PKPayment
authorization result.
On the web, it's also simple
to add your order details
using the W3C
Payment Request API.
Like before, extract the order
details from the server result.
Return these order details
and the data you complete
the payment with.
After the order details have
been returned the device,
those details will be synched
across each
of the user's devices.
Each device will request the
order package from your server,
providing the order details.
Verify the authentication token
by matching it
to the one you sent
with the order details.
Provided the authentication
token matches,
return the order package
to the device.
Now the order is ready
to display in Wallet
for that device.
You should attempt to repair
your order as soon as possible
so that it's available as soon
as the device requests it.
If your server fails
to return the order,
the device will attempt
multiple retries
with an exponential backoff.
We've seen this order package
referenced many times now,
but what exactly
is it comprised of?
Orders are distributed
as order packages.
They contain everything needed
to display your order
to the user
and prove it's from you.
An order package contains
a JSON dictionary
that describes your order,
images like your logo,
and an inline image
for each item in your order.
Refer to the
Human Interface Guidelines
and the referral sources
for guidance on creating images.
Also include localized resources
like strings files.
Keep an eye out
for the total order size
and only include
what's relevant.
All of this content is described
in another JSON dictionary
called the "manifest."
You can think of it
like a table of contents.
It contains a reference to all
the files in the order package.
The key for an entry
is the relative file path
and the value is the files'
SHA256 checksum
which is a different checksum
to what's used in parses.
Now what we need to do
is sign the package
to prove its authenticity.
The signature verifies
that the order package
originates from
a trusted source --
you.
It is a detached cryptographic
message signature
of the manifest, same as parses.
Sign the manifest
with the private key
associated with
your Order Type ID certificate
and with the Apple Worldwide
Developer Relations
Intermediate Certificate,
ensuring you use
the renewed version
of the certificate.
To finish building the order,
simply compress the package
and change
the file extension to order.
Now it's time
to update your order.
Order information
often changes over time;
for example, the order
of pet goodies
your customer made earlier
is now on its way.
Supporting automatic updates
enables you to deliver
this update to your customer
quickly and securely.
Your customer now has their
pet supplies order in Wallet,
and the order indicates
support for updates,
so the device will register
with your web service.
Later on, the customer's order
is now out for delivery,
so your server will notify
all registered devices
using the registration
information.
When the customer's device
receives the push notification,
it will now ask for the order
from your server.
Your server then returns
the updated order package
to the device.
Now that we know how
a basic order flow works,
let's break down the exact steps
you'll need to take
to support order updates.
First, indicate that you support
updates for an order.
It's super easy to tell Wallet
that your order
supports updates;
you just need to include
two pieces of information
in the order package.
In the order.json, add the
webServiceURL you'd like.
This would be the same one you
provided in the order details.
Also add an
authenticationToken field,
which Wallet will use
to prove its authenticity
when requesting order updates.
You'll have to manage
when devices ask to add
or remove themselves
from being registered.
Your server must
be able to handle
adding or removing
registration information.
It must be able
to find the devices
that registered for updates
to an order.
This enables your server
to notify these devices
when you update the order.
Your server must also
be able to find the orders
that a device registered for
so that your server knows
which updated orders are
relevant for that device.
There are different ways
you could structure
this information.
One way will be to use
a relational database
with two entities --
one for devices
and one for orders --
and a many-to-many relationship
for registrations.
When the order is updated,
your server needs to notify
the registered devices.
So your server needs to grab
the relevant devices
based on the stored
registration information,
then send a push notification
to each device
using its push token.
The Order Type ID
doubles as push topic,
and the payload should be empty.
You can use
the Order Type ID certificate
to communicate with APNs.
One more thing to note
about notifications
is that the enum property
changeNotifications
can be set on the order package
to customize
how you'd like order
notifications to be delivered.
The options available are
enabled,
which will always send order
update notifications
and is the default value.
If you don't want Wallet
to duplicate your notifications,
set disableIfAppInstalled which
will not send notifications
if the user has apps installed
that you listed
in the order package.
The registered devices will each
ask for the new order package
which your server will provide.
When a device receives
a push notification,
it doesn't know yet
which orders have changed,
as the push notification
is empty.
Together with your server,
the device figures out
which orders have changed since
the last time it requested them.
Use the registration information
your server stored
to find relevant orders,
then return their IDs.
Keep track of update times
and include a modification tag
in your response to limit
the number of Order IDs
returned by future requests.
You can use a timestamp,
for example.
The value is opaque
to the device.
The device will provide
the modification tag
the next time
it requests changes.
Finally, the device will request
the latest package
for each order your server
indicated is updated.
We've covered a lot today.
Follow these practices
to provide
the best customer experience
possible.
When implementing Apple Pay,
offer express checkout
by displaying
the Apple Pay button
on the product
or cart page.
Users can select shipping
options and addresses
directly in the payment sheet
and check out
without typing anything.
When implementing
order tracking,
use the knowledge you have about
your customer preferences
to provide relevant
localizations only.
Additionally, be mindful
of the number of assets
you include to keep
the order package size small.
When you update an order,
promptly notify devices
that registered
for updates to it.
Orders in Wallet should match
the actual state of the order.
Make sure to also check out
the Human Interface Guidelines
for order tracking and also in
displaying the Apple Pay button.
Today, I've covered getting
started implementing Apple Pay
through the building
and updating an order.
This talk is intended
to introduce you
to implementing Apple Pay
and order tracking,
but you should definitely
check out the documentation
linked in the session notes
to dig into more details.
Additionally, you can check out
our most recent WWDC video.
Thank you so much
for your time today.
And I hope you enjoy
the rest of your day.